welcome to the 2008 FIRST Robotics
Competition and this year's game first
overdrive overdrive is played on a 27 x
54 foot carpeted field two alliances of
three teams each occupy the ends of the
field from where they control the robots
each team is composed of drivers a coach
and a new position the Robo coach the
center of the track has spanned by the
overpass which is six and a half feet
above the floor a six foot tall lane
divider runs down the midline of the
track the two structures help define the
finish lines on the red and the blue
lanes of the track the game pieces for
first overdrive our 40 inch diameter
inflatable balls known as track balls
there are two for each alliance the
objective of overdrive is to have each
Alliance move their robots and
trackballs around the track as rapidly
as possible and gain points each time
they cross their finish line bonus
points are earned every time a track
ball passes over at the overpass Robo
coach stations are located at the
corners of the track robot start the
match lined up against their alliance
wall starting positions for the track
balls are randomly determined before
each match the match starts with hybrid
mode when robots can autonomously
navigate around the field and gather
points for each line they cross
alliances will also get a bonus for each
of their track balls that is removed
from the overpass before the hybrid
period ends during the hybrid period the
Robo coaches can pass signals to the
robots to give them cues to alter their
gameplay at the end of hybrid period the
human players step forward and take
control of the robots as teleoperated
period starts robots continue to race
around the track and score points each
time they cross their own finish line
when overtaking slower machines robots
can signal desire to pass by gently
bumping robots can move track balls
around the field by bumping and hurting
them or the track balls can be captured
and possessed track ball score each time
they cross their own finish line two
points for going under the overpass
eight points for going over robots will
have to be built robustly to avoid
damage from falling trackballs
trackballs plays back on the overpass at
the end of the match will earn a special
12 point bonus of course they have to
stay there good luck and we'll see it
the competition's
you